# limo

 about docker-limo
what did I do
Use doker to complete the project, including docker images, containers, and simple operations of Docker-Compose. 
What is Docker?
Docker is a package of Linux containers that provides an easy-to-use container interface. It is currently the most popular Linux container solution.

Docker packages the application and the program's dependencies in a single file. Running this file will generate a virtual container. Programs run in this virtual container as if they were running on a real physical machine. With Docker, you don't have to worry about the environment.

Overall, Docker's interface is quite simple, and users can easily create and use containers, and put their own applications into containers. Containers can also be versioned, copied, shared, and modified, just like normal code.

Operation 1
First, I completed the initial experience with the test image that comes with dockerhub, created and published a simple .NET Core application
Get a feel for Docker with the simplest image file "hello world".

$ docker image pull library/hello-world
In the above code, docker image pull is the command to grab the image file. library/hello-world is the location of the image file in the repository, where library is the group where the image file is located, and hello-world is the name of the image file.



$ docker image pull hello-world
After the capture is successful, you can see the image file on the local machine.


$ docker image ls
Now, run the image file.


$ docker container run hello-world
The docker container run command generates a running container instance from the image file.

The run is successful and you will read the output on the screen.


$ docker container run hello-world

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.
After this prompt is output, hello world will stop running, and the container will automatically terminate.

Some containers do not automatically terminate because the service is provided. For example, by installing an image running Ubuntu, you can experience the Ubuntu system from the command line.

$ docker container run -it ubuntu bash
For those containers that do not terminate automatically, they must be terminated manually using the docker container kill command.

Operation 2
2.1
The container instance generated by the image file is itself a file, called a container file. That is, once the container is generated, two files exist at the same time: the image file and the container file. And closing the container doesn't delete the container files, it just stops the container
# List running containers on this machine
$ docker container ls

# List all containers on the machine, including terminated containers
$ docker container ls --all


2.2

The Compose project is the official open source project of Docker, responsible for the rapid orchestration of Docker container clusters.

Download the docker-compose binary from github to install
$ sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.27.4/docker-compose-'uname -s'-'uname -m' -o /usr/local/bin/docker -compose

(2) Add executable permission
$ sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose

(3) Test installation results
$ docker-compose --version


2.3 Using docker-compose for project deployment
After installing docker, build the server
1) Build via Dockerfile
Copy the code file to the relevant path of the container, then compile it, and finally set the container startup entry, that is, start the compiled server program, and the container port is 8080.
2) Build the database
To build the source image, copy the setup.sql used to create the initial table under the folder to the initialization directory of the container, so that the table will be automatically created when the container is started.
Finally use the default port 3306
3)
Configure the related services of the two containers in docker-compose.yml.
Both containers are created by building. The database configuration needs to set the database name, user name, password, etc. corresponding to the server program, and the data folder in the root directory (if not, the file will be created automatically folder) is mounted to the database container where the data is stored. The last two both need port mapping, otherwise they cannot be accessed locally.






https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql


